.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 13/04/11                
.Dt crisprtools 1       
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 
.Nm crisprtools
.Sh SYNOPSIS             
.Nm
<command> [<args>]
.Ao Em file.crispr Ac

.Sh DESCRIPTION         
.Nm
is a tool for displaying, extracting and manipulating .crispr files. These files are XML based descriptions of
.Em C Ns lustered
.Em R Ns egularly
.Em I Ns nterspersed
.Em S Ns hort
.Em P Ns alindromic
.Em R Ns epeats
(CRISPR) loci from genomic and metagenomic datasets.

.Pp
.Sh COMMANDS AND OPTIONS

.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It merge [-hso OUTFILE] file1.crispr file2.crispr [1,n]
take two or more .crispr files and merge them together
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl h
Output help message
.It Fl s
Sanitise the group names in the resulting output file so that all groups have consecutive identifiers, and that there are no clashes between group numbers
.It Fl o Ar OUTFILE
Specify an output file for the merged .crispr file [default: crisprtools_merged.crispr ]
.El
.It sanitise [-ohcsdf] file.crispr
change names and accession numbers of groups, spacers and flankers
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl h
Output help message
.It Fl o Ar OUTFILE
Output file name, creates a sanitised copy of the input file  [default: sanitise input file inplace]
.It Fl s
Sanitise the spacers
.It Fl c
Sanitise the contigs
.It Fl d
Sanitise the direct repeats
.It Fl f
Sanitise the flanking sequences
.El
.It extract [-ghx -s [FILE] -d [FILE] -f [FILE] -aCoO] file.crispr
get data out of a .crispr file
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It 
.It Fl h
print this handy help message
.It Fl o Ar DIR
Output file directory  [default: .]  
.It Fl O Ar STRING
Give a custom prefix to each of the outputed files [default: ]
.It Fl g Ar INT Op Ar ,n
A comma separated list of group IDs that you would like to extract data from.
Note that only the group number is needed, do not use prefixes like 'Group' or 'G', which
are sometimes used in file names or in a .crispr file
.It Fl s Op Ar FILE
Extract the spacers of the listed groups.  By default prints to stdout however
if a file is given prints to that file.  The output file is automatically
set when used in conjunction with -x; see below.
.It Fl d Op Ar FILE
Extract the direct repeats of the listed group.  By default prints to stdout however
if a file is given as an arguement, prints to that file.  The output file is automatically
set when used in conjunction with -x; see below.
.It Fl f Op Ar FILE
Extract the flanking sequences of the listed group.  By default prints to stdout however
if a file is given as an arguement, prints to that file.  The output file is automatically
set when used in conjunction with -x; see below.
.It Fl C
Supress coverage information when printing spacers
.It Fl x
Split the results into different files for each group.  If multiple types are set  (ie. -s -d
-f) then each type will be outputted in a different file: 
group_id_[spacers|direct_repeats|flankers].fa
.It Fl a
Outputs all information about a selected group; equivelent to -s -d -f. This is the default
behaviour.
.El
.It stat [-aghpst] [--header] file.crispr
get some statistics of the CRISPRs described 
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl a 
print out aggregate summary, can be combined with -t -p
.It Fl h
print this handy help message
.It Fl H
print out column headers in tabular output
.It Fl g Ar INT Op Ar ,n
a comma separated list of group IDs that you would like to see stats for.
.It Fl p
pretty print
.It Fl s
separator string for tabular output [default: "\\t"]
.It Fl t
tabular output
.El
.It rm [-ho] -g <groups> file.crispr
remove a group
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl h
Output help message
.It Fl g Ar INT Op Ar ,n
A comma separated list of group IDs that you would like to remove
.It Fl o Ar OUTFILE 
Output file name. Default behaviour changes file inplace
.El
.It draw [-ghyoaf] file.crispr
render a graphviz image of some or all of the CRISPRs described in the file
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl h
print this handy help message
.It Fl o Ar DIR
output file directory  [default: .]
.It Fl g Ar INT Op Ar ,n
A comma separated list of group IDs that you would like to extract data from.
Note that only the group number is needed, do not use prefixes like 'Group' or 'G', which
are sometimes used in file names or in a .crispr file
.It Fl a Ar STRING
The Graphviz layout algorithm to use [default: dot ]
.It Fl f Ar STRING           
The output format for the image, equivelent to the -T parameter of Graphviz executables [default: eps]
.It Fl c Ar COLOUR           
The colour scale to use for coverage information.  The available choices are:
        red-blue
        blue-red
        red-blue-green
        green-blue-red
.El
.It filter [-ohsdf] file.crisprr
remove groups based on criteria
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl h    
Print this handy help message
.It Fl o Ar FILE            
Output file name, creates a filtered copy of the input file  [default: modify input file inplace]
.It Fl s Ar INT             
Filter based on the number of spacers the spacers 
.It Fl d Ar INT             
Filter based on the direct repeats 
.It Fl f Ar INT              
Filter based on the flanking sequences 
.El
.El


.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr crass 1
.\".Xr c 1 ,
.\".Xr a 2 ,
.\".Xr b 2 ,
.\".Xr a 3 ,
.\".Xr b 3 
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
